Welcome to the Kubernetes Dashboard demo.
The Kubernetes Dashboard provides us with a web interface to manage most aspects of our Kubernetes applications. It allows us to visualize our resources and to interact with the cluster to create, modify, and terminate applications.
It allows us to visualize our resources, and to interact with the cluster to create, modify and terminate applications.
In this video, we demonstrate how to enable the Kubernetes Dashboard addon, which, in latest Minikube releases, comes disabled by default.
In order to take advantage of most features of the Dashboard, including resource utilization information, such as CPU and Memory, we will enable the metrics-server addon as well.
With minikube started, let's list its addons and their status: minikube addons list.
As we see, the Dashboard is disabled.
And the metrics-server is disabled as well.
So, let's enable the metrics-server, and then the Dashboard: minikube addons enable metrics-server
And then we run the same command for the dashboard:minikube addons enable dashboard.
Now, let's confirm that both addons have been enabled with minikube addons list.
Now, we see both the Dashboard enabled and the metrics-server enabled as well.
To open the Dashboard in the default browser on our workstation,
let's run the minikube dashboard command.
This will open a new tab in our default browser.
At the top of the Dashboard we can switch between namespaces.
While the navigation panel to the left allows us to switch between various API object types.
By selecting Nodes,
Pods,
or any of the controllers,
we display CPU and Memory utilization graphs, enabled in the Dashboard addon by the metrics-server addon for these object types.
Each view allows us to access details and configuration properties specific to the displayed object.
In addition, the Dashboard allows us to deploy applications and create Kubernetes API objects.
By clicking on the "+" sign at the top right corner,
we switch to the Create Interface with options to create objects from literal YAML or JSON content,
from a file we can upload file,
or we can just create an app with just a few clicks and a minimum amount of typing.
In this video we explored the Kubernetes Dashboard and its key features for managing the cluster.
Thank you for watching, and I will see you in the next video.